feat(docs): Expand web3 config guide (#7131)
ethereum/web3.js: docs/docs/guides/web3_config/index.md

There is list of configuration params that can be set for modifying behavior of different functions in web3.js packages. Following is list of configuration options with details:

> - [handleRevert](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#handleRevert) 

Reviewer: Instead of linking to the API docs here, I wonder if it would be better to link to the new section with the expanded information, and then link to the API docs from there.

Author: Good suggestion!

- [transactionPollingTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionPollingTimeout)  
- [transactionReceiptPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionReceiptPollingInterval)  
- [transactionSendTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionSendTimeout)  

> - [Deprecated][transactionConfirmationPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionConfirmationPollingInterval)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Deprecated] [transactionConfirmationPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionConfirmationPollingInterval)
```

*/
```

## Explanation of Configuration Parameters

### [handleRevert](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#handleRevert)
The following methods will retrieve specific error types and error messages when `handleRevert` is set to `true`:
- [`web3.eth.sendTransaction()`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().send()`](/libdocs/Contract#send);

> The error types will be one of the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The error type will be one of the following:
```

- [InvalidResponseError](/api/web3-errors/class/InvalidResponseError)
- [ContractExecutionError](/api/web3-errors/class/ContractExecutionError)
- [TransactionRevertWithCustomError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertWithCustomError)
- [TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError)
- [TransactionRevertInstructionError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertInstructionError)
- [TransactionPollingTimeoutError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionPollingTimeoutError)

> For example, the error message could be `TransactionRevertInstructionError('Returned error: invalid argument 0: json: cannot unmarshal invalid hex string into Go struct field TransactionArgs.data of type hexutil.Bytes')`. The `handleRevert` is only supported for [`sendTransaction`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction) and not for [`sendSignedTransaction`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendSignedTransaction) for now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the error message could be `TransactionRevertInstructionError('Returned error: invalid argument 0: json: cannot unmarshal invalid hex string into Go struct field TransactionArgs.data of type hexutil.Bytes')`. The `handleRevert` option is only supported for [`sendTransaction`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction) and not for [`sendSignedTransaction`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendSignedTransaction) for now.
```

The default value of `handleRevert` is `false`.

### [defaultAccount](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultAccount)

> The `defaultAccount` option is used as the default `from` property, if no `from` property is specified in for the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultAccount` option is used as the default `from` property, if no `from` property is specified for the following methods:
```

- [`web3.eth.sendTransaction()`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction);
- [`web3.eth.call()`](/api/web3-eth/function/call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().call()`](/libdocs/Contract#call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().send()`](/libdocs/Contract#send);

The default value of `defaultAccount` is `undefined`.

### [defaultBlock](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultBlock)

> The following methods require a `blockNumber` parameter during its execution process, the `defaultBlock` option is used for these methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following methods accept an optional `blockNumber` parameter, the `defaultBlock` option is used for these methods if no `blockNumber` parameter is provided. 
```

- [`web3.eth.getBalance()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getBalance);
- [`web3.eth.getCode()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getCode);
- [`web3.eth.getTransactionCount()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getTransactionCount);
- [`web3.eth.getStorageAt()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getStorageAt);
- [`web3.eth.call()`](/api/web3-eth/function/call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().call()`](/libdocs/Contract#call);

> You can override it by passing in the `defaultBlock` as last parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a `blockNumber` parameter is provided to one of the above function calls, it will override this option.
```

- [ContractExecutionError](/api/web3-errors/class/ContractExecutionError)
- [TransactionRevertWithCustomError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertWithCustomError)
- [TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError)
- [TransactionRevertInstructionError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertInstructionError)
- [TransactionPollingTimeoutError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionPollingTimeoutError)

For example, the error message could be `TransactionRevertInstructionError('Returned error: invalid argument 0: json: cannot unmarshal invalid hex string into Go struct field TransactionArgs.data of type hexutil.Bytes')`. The `handleRevert` is only supported for [`sendTransaction`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction) and not for [`sendSignedTransaction`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendSignedTransaction) for now.

The default value of `handleRevert` is `false`.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.handleRevert = false;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [defaultAccount](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultAccount)

> This `defaultAccount` is used as the default `from` property, if no `from` property is specified in for the following methods:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultAccount` option is used as the default `from` property, if no `from` property is specified in for the following methods:
```

- [`web3.eth.sendTransaction()`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction);
- [`web3.eth.call()`](/api/web3-eth/function/call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().call()`](/libdocs/Contract#call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().send()`](/libdocs/Contract#send);

The default value of `defaultAccount` is `undefined`.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultAccount = undefined;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);

> ```

Reviewer: I don't understand the benefit of these code blocks - they seem repetitive and don't communicate any new information to the reader. I would prefer to get rid of most of them (I will make note of the instances where I think it would make sense to keep them).

Author: I agree with you. The original requirement of the issue was to add an example for each config property. Initially, I used a value different from the default to demonstrate other options. However, during the first round of review, it was requested that we use the default value instead. Now, it seems redundant to me as well.

### [defaultBlock](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultBlock)

> The following methods require a `blockNumber` parameter during its execution process, the `defaultBlock` is used for these methods. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following methods require a `blockNumber` parameter during its execution process, the `defaultBlock` option is used for these methods. 
```

- [`web3.eth.getBalance()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getBalance);
- [`web3.eth.getCode()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getCode);
- [`web3.eth.getTransactionCount()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getTransactionCount);
- [`web3.eth.getStorageAt()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getStorageAt);
- [`web3.eth.call()`](/api/web3-eth/function/call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().call()`](/libdocs/Contract#call);

> You can override it by passing in the defaultBlock as last parameter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can override it by passing in the `defaultBlock` as last parameter.
```

The default value of `defaultBlock` is "latest".

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultBlock = "latest";

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

#### All available choices for defaultBlock:
```ts
web3.defaultBlock = 20167235; // A block number
web3.defaultBlock = "earliest"; // The genesis block
web3.defaultBlock = "latest"; // The latest block (current head of the blockchain)
web3.defaultBlock = "pending"; // The block pending to be mined (including pending transactions)
web3.defaultBlock = "finalized"; // (For POS networks) The finalized block is one which has been accepted as canonical by greater than 2/3 of validators
web3.defaultBlock = "safe"; // (For POS networks) The safe head block is one which under normal network conditions, is expected to be included in the canonical chain. Under normal network conditions the safe head and the actual tip of the chain will be equivalent (with safe head trailing only by a few seconds). Safe heads will be less likely to be reorged than the proof of work network`s latest blocks.
```

### [transactionBlockTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionBlockTimeout)

>  This option defines the number of new blocks to wait for the **first confirmation**, otherwise the PromiEvent rejects with a timeout error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 This option defines the number of new blocks to wait for the **first confirmation**, otherwise the [`PromiEvent`](/api/web3/class/Web3PromiEvent) rejects with a timeout error.
```

web3.transactionConfirmationBlocks = 24;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [transactionPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionPollingInterval)
This option defines the number of seconds between Web3 calls for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. Modifying this value can reduce the wait time for confirmations or decrease the number of network requests. Setting the `transactionPollingInterval` would also set [`transactionReceiptPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionreceiptpollinginterval) and [`transactionConfirmationPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionconfirmationpollinginterval) to the same value.

The default value of `transactionPollingInterval` is 1000 ms.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionPollingInterval = 1000; // 1000 ms = 1 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
/* ↳
  ...
  transactionPollingInterval: 1000,
  transactionPollingTimeout: 750000,
  transactionReceiptPollingInterval: 1000,
  transactionSendTimeout: 750000,
  transactionConfirmationPollingInterval: 1000,
  ...
*/

> ```

Reviewer: It probably makes sense to keep this code block since it reinforces the fact that setting the `transactionPollingInterval` has an impact on other configuration parameters.

The default value of `transactionPollingTimeout` is 750 seconds (12.5 minutes).
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionPollingTimeout = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [transactionReceiptPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionReceiptPollingInterval)
This option defines the number of seconds between Web3 calls for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. Compared to [`transactionPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionpollinginterval), it takes higher precedence. When this value is set, it will be read first.

The default value of `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` is `undefined`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionReceiptPollingInterval = undefined;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [transactionSendTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionSendTimeout)

> The `transactionSendTimeout` option is used to specify how long to wait for the network to return the sent transaction result. Note: If the RPC call times out, the transaction may still be pending or even mined by the network. We recommend checking the pending transactions in such a case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `transactionSendTimeout` option is used to specify how long to wait for the network to return the sent transaction result. Note: If the RPC call times out, the transaction may still be pending or even mined by the network. It is recommended that the pending transactions be checked in such a case.
```

The default value of `transactionSendTimeout` is 750 seconds (12.5 minutes).
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionSendTimeout = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [transactionConfirmationPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionConfirmationPollingInterval)
The `transactionConfirmationPollingInterval` option is deprecated. Please use [`transactionReceiptPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionreceiptpollinginterval) or [`transactionPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionpollinginterval) instead.

### [blockHeaderTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#blockHeaderTimeout)

> After sending a transaction, it will listen for the appearance of new blocks and proceed with subsequent operations based on the transaction results within them. This option defines the amount seconds it should wait for 'newBlockHeaders' in case if subscription fails it auto reverts to polling for looking blockHeaderTimeout.

Reviewer: I don't understand what is meant by "in case if subscription fails it auto reverts to polling for looking blockHeaderTimeout."

```suggestion
After sending a transaction, Web3 will listen for the appearance of new blocks and proceed with subsequent operations based on the transaction results within them. This option defines the number of seconds Web3 should wait for the appearance of new blocks before reverting to polling to fetch the transaction receipt.
```

Author: Here is the code logic. The `subscription` and `polling` represent two methods in the codebase. It's not the total time we wait for the new blocks. It's the time we wait before it fall back to run `watchTransactionByPolling`to fetch transaction receipt. I copied this explanation from here https://docs.web3js.org/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#blockHeaderTimeout at the beginning.
https://github.com/web3/web3.js/blob/5080e80fe3e55494b2871e7906670807b086383b/packages/web3-eth/src/utils/watch_transaction_by_subscription.ts#L109-L119

Reviewer: Okay, I have updated my suggestion based on the information you provided. Does it seem accurate to you?

Author: It's clear enough to me. How about adding `to fetch transaction receipt.` at the end? `This option defines the number of seconds Web3 should wait for the appearance of new blocks before reverting to polling to fetch transaction receipt.`

The default value of `blockHeaderTimeout` is 10 seconds.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.blockHeaderTimeout = 10; // 10 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [maxListenersWarningThreshold](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#maxListenersWarningThreshold)

> The `maxListenersWarningThreshold` is used to set the `maxListeners` property in `EventEmitter`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `maxListenersWarningThreshold` is used to set the `maxListeners` property in [`EventEmitter`](/api/web3-utils/class/EventEmitter).
```

The default value of `maxListenersWarningThreshold` is 100.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.maxListenersWarningThreshold = 100;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [contractDataInputFill](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#contractDataInputFill)

> The `contractDataInputFill` will allow you to set the hash of the method signature and encoded parameters to the property either `data`, `input` or `both` within your contract. This will affect the contracts [`send`](/libdocs/Contract#send), [`call`](/libdocs/Contract#call) and [`estimateGas`](/libdocs/Contract#estimategas) methods.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `contractDataInputFill` option allows users to specify whether the [`data`](/api/web3/namespace/types#data) or [`input`](/api/web3/namespace/types#input) property (or both properties) should be set to the hash of the method signature and encoded parameters. This will affect the contracts [`send`](/libdocs/Contract#send), [`call`](/libdocs/Contract#call) and [`estimateGas`](/libdocs/Contract#estimategas) methods.
```

The default value of `contractDataInputFill` is `data`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.contractDataInputFill = 'data';

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

#### All available choices for contractDataInputFill:
```ts
'data'
'input'
'both'
```

### [defaultNetworkId](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultNetworkId)

> Each network has its own network ID. The defaultNetwork allows you to set the default network ID to increase code readability. If this parameter is not set, it will fetch the network ID from the connected RPC request.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each network has its own [network ID](https://docs.goquorum.consensys.io/concepts/network-and-chain-id). The `defaultNetworkId` option allows users to set the default network ID. If this option is not set, Web3 will fetch the network ID with an RPC request.
```

The default value of `defaultNetworkId` is `undefined`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultNetworkId = undefined;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [defaultChain](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultChain)

> The `defaultChain` is used for building the [`baseChain`](/api/web3-types/interface/Common#baseChain) property of the tx options in a transaction. If the `defaultCommon.basechain` is set, the `defaultChain` should be consistent with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultChain` option is used to set the [`Common`](/api/web3-eth-contract/class/Contract#defaultCommon) `baseChain` property. The value of this option should be consistent with [`defaultCommon.baseChain`](/guides/web3_config/#defaultcommon) if both options are set.
```

The default value of `defaultChain` is `mainnet`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultChain = 'mainnet';

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

#### All available choices for defaultChain:
```ts
'goerli'
'kovan'
'mainnet'
'rinkeby'
'ropsten'
'sepolia'
```

### [defaultHardfork](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultHardfork)

> The `defaultHardfork` is used for building the `defaultHardfork` property of the tx options in a transaction. If the `defaultCommon.defaultHardfork` is set, the `defaultHardfork` should be consistent with it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultHardfork` option is used to set the [`Common`](/api/web3-eth-contract/class/Contract#defaultCommon) `hardfork` property. The value of this option should be consistent with [`defaultCommon.hardfork`](/guides/web3_config/#defaultcommon) if both options are set.
```

The default value of `defaultHardfork` is `london`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultHardfork = 'london';

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

#### All available choices for defaultHardFork:
```ts
'chainstart'
'frontier'
'homestead'
'dao'
'tangerineWhistle'
'spuriousDragon'
'byzantium'
'constantinople'
'petersburg'
'istanbul'
'muirGlacier'
'berlin'
'london'
'altair'
'arrowGlacier'
'grayGlacier'
'bellatrix'
'merge'
'capella'
'sharding'
```

### [defaultCommon](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultCommon)

> The `defaultCommon` is used for building the `common` property of the tx options in a transaction. It should be consistent with the [`defaultHardfork`](/guides/web3_config/#defaulthardfork) and [`defaultChain`](/guides/web3_config/#defaultchain). Please check the `defaultCommon` property [here](/libdocs/Contract/#defaultcommon)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultCommon` option is used to set the [`defaultCommon`](/libdocs/Contract#defaultcommon) value for smart contract transactions. It should be consistent with the [`defaultHardfork`](/guides/web3_config/#defaulthardfork) and [`defaultChain`](/guides/web3_config/#defaultchain) options if they are set.
```

The default value of `defaultCommon` is `undefined`.

```ts
import { Web3, Hardfork } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultHardfork = 'berlin'
web3.defaultChain = 'goerli'

web3.defaultCommon = {
    baseChain: 'goerli',
    hardfork: 'berlin' as Hardfork,
    customChain: {
        networkId: 1,
        chainId: 1,

>     },

Reviewer: Keeping this makes sense since it reinforces the need for `defaultCommon` to be consistent with the other configuration parameters.

};

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [defaultTransactionType](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultTransactionType)

> The `defaultTransactionType` is used set the transaction type. Transactions with type 0x0 are legacy transactions that use the transaction format existing before typed transactions were introduced in [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718). Transactions with type 0x1 are transactions introduced in [EIP-2930](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2930). Transactions with type 0x2 are transactions introduced in [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559), included in Ethereum's London fork.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultTransactionType` option is used to set the transaction type. Transactions with type 0x0 are legacy transactions that use the transaction format that existed before [typed transactions](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/transactions/#typed-transaction-envelope) were introduced in [EIP-2718](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2718). Transactions with type 0x1 are transactions introduced in [EIP-2930](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-2930). Transactions with type 0x2 are transactions introduced in [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559), included in Ethereum's London fork.
```

The default value of `defaultTransactionType` is `0x02`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultTransactionType = 0x02;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas)

> The `defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas` is used to send transactions with the maximum priority gas fee.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas` option is used to set the [`defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas`](/api/web3-eth-contract/class/Contract#defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas) value for [EIP-1559](https://eips.ethereum.org/EIPS/eip-1559) smart contract transactions ([transaction type](#defaulttransactiontype) 0x2).
```

The default value of `defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas` is 2500000000 (2.5gwei) in hexstring format.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';
import { numberToHex } from 'web3-utils'

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultMaxPriorityFeePerGas = numberToHex(2500000000); // 2.5gwei

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [defaultReturnFormat](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultReturnFormat)

> The `defaultReturnFormat` allows users to specify the format in which certain types of data should be returned by default. It is a configuration parameter that can be set at the global level and affects how data is returned across the entire library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `defaultReturnFormat` option allows users to specify the format in which certain types of data should be returned by default. It is a configuration parameter that can be set at the global level and affects how data is returned across the entire library.
```

*/
```

## Explanation of Configuration Parameters

### [handleRevert](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#handleRevert)
The following methods will retrieve specific error types and error messages when `handleRevert` is set to `true`:
- [`web3.eth.sendTransaction()`](/api/web3-eth/function/sendTransaction);

> - [`web3.eth.call()`](/api/web3-eth/function/call);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
direct eth_calls dnt use handleRevert,

> - [`myContract.methods.myMethod().call()`](/libdocs/Contract#call);

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```

- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().send()`](/libdocs/Contract#send);

The error types will be one of the following:
- [InvalidResponseError](/api/web3-errors/class/InvalidResponseError)
- [ContractExecutionError](/api/web3-errors/class/ContractExecutionError)
- [TransactionRevertWithCustomError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertWithCustomError)
- [TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError)
- [TransactionRevertInstructionError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionRevertInstructionError)

> - [TransactionPollingTimeoutError](/api/web3-errors/class/TransactionPollingTimeoutError)

Reviewer 2: from where you got these error types , that these could be thrown as result of revert checking?

Author: These errors are from the following code
https://github.com/web3/web3.js/blob/cbbbd84bac7051b57ec636b857e06adcc3da05f6/packages/web3-eth/src/utils/send_tx_helper.ts#L250-L256

web3.defaultAccount = undefined;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [defaultBlock](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#defaultBlock)
The following methods require a `blockNumber` parameter during its execution process, the `defaultBlock` is used for these methods. 
- [`web3.eth.getBalance()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getBalance);
- [`web3.eth.getCode()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getCode);
- [`web3.eth.getTransactionCount()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getTransactionCount);
- [`web3.eth.getStorageAt()`](/api/web3-eth/function/getStorageAt);
- [`web3.eth.call()`](/api/web3-eth/function/call);
- [`myContract.methods.myMethod().call()`](/libdocs/Contract#call);

You can override it by passing in the defaultBlock as last parameter.

The default value of `defaultBlock` is "latest".

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultBlock = "latest";

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

#### All available choices for defaultBlock:
```ts
web3.defaultBlock = 20167235; // A block number
web3.defaultBlock = "earliest"; // The genesis block
web3.defaultBlock = "latest"; // The latest block (current head of the blockchain)

> web3.defaultBlock = "pending"; // The currently mined block (including pending transactions)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
web3.defaultBlock = "pending"; // The block pending to be mined (including pending transactions)
```

web3.defaultBlock = "finalized"; // (For POS networks) The finalized block is one which has been accepted as canonical by greater than 2/3 of validators
web3.defaultBlock = "safe"; // (For POS networks) The safe head block is one which under normal network conditions, is expected to be included in the canonical chain. Under normal network conditions the safe head and the actual tip of the chain will be equivalent (with safe head trailing only by a few seconds). Safe heads will be less likely to be reorged than the proof of work network`s latest blocks.
```

### [transactionBlockTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionBlockTimeout)

> The `transactionBlockTimeout` is used over socket-based connections. This option defines the number of new blocks to wait for the **first confirmation**, otherwise the PromiEvent rejects with a timeout error.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 This option defines the number of new blocks to wait for the **first confirmation**, otherwise the PromiEvent rejects with a timeout error.
```
Its there with polling as well,

Author: I removed all socket-based connections and HTTP connections from the doc.

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [transactionSendTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionSendTimeout)
The `transactionSendTimeout` option is used to specify how long to wait for the network to return the sent transaction result. Note: If the RPC call times out, the transaction may still be pending or even mined by the network. We recommend checking the pending transactions in such a case.

The default value of `transactionSendTimeout` is 750 seconds (12.5 minutes).
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionSendTimeout = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```

### [transactionConfirmationPollingInterval](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#transactionConfirmationPollingInterval)
The `transactionConfirmationPollingInterval` option is deprecated. Please use [`transactionReceiptPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionreceiptpollinginterval) or [`transactionPollingInterval`](/guides/web3_config/#transactionpollinginterval) instead.

### [blockHeaderTimeout](/api/web3-core/class/Web3Config#blockHeaderTimeout)

> The `blockHeaderTimeout` is used over socket-based connections. After sending a transaction, it will listen for the appearance of new blocks and proceed with subsequent operations based on the transaction results within them. This option defines the amount seconds it should wait for 'newBlockHeaders' event before falling back to polling to fetch transaction receipt.

Reviewer 2: in case if subscription fails it auto reverts to polling for looking blockHeaderTimeout

*/
```

### handleRevert

> When `handleRevert` is set to True, the following methods will retrieve specific error types and error messages:

Reviewer 3: Can you mention within the configs what the default value is and setting that config within the code snippet

Author: Thanks for the review! Do you mean I should use the default value as the example within the code snippet? I mentioned the default value in the explanation for each config property. It may not be clear enough since some of them appear in the middle of a sentence. I can emphasize what the default value is in a single sentence above the code snippet. Is that better?

```ts

> - web3.eth.sendTransaction()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
web3.handleRevert = true;
- web3.eth.sendTransaction();
```

> - web3.eth.call()

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- web3.eth.call();
```
add semi colons to all typescript lines as well for consistency

- TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError
- TransactionRevertInstructionError
- TransactionPollingTimeoutError
```

For example, the error message could be `TransactionRevertInstructionError('Returned error: invalid argument 0: json: cannot unmarshal invalid hex string into Go struct field TransactionArgs.data of type hexutil.Bytes')`. The default value is `false`, and handleRevert is only supported for `sendTransaction` and not for `sendSignedTransaction` for now.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.handleRevert = true;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `handleRevert` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.handleRevert = true;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### defaultAccount
This `defaultAccount` is used as the default `from` property, if no `from` property is specified in for the following methods:
```ts
- web3.eth.sendTransaction();
- web3.eth.call();
- myContract.methods.myMethod().call();
- myContract.methods.myMethod().send();
```

> The default value for `defaultAccount` is `undefined`.

Author: just like these lines. @luu-alex

Reviewer 3: Yup! exactly how you've done it for these methods

*/
```

> ### handleRevert

Reviewer: These are all currently appearing as sub-sections under the "Get Current Config" section. It may be a good idea to create a new ##-level section to group all these detail sections.
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0452d445-1904-4e18-b860-847396f87578)

Author: Add a new `## Explanation of Configuration Parameters` section. I'm not sure if this name is good enough

The following methods will retrieve specific error types and error messages when `handleRevert` is set to `true`:
```ts
- web3.eth.sendTransaction();
- web3.eth.call();
- myContract.methods.myMethod().call();
- myContract.methods.myMethod().send();
```

The error types will be one of the following:
```ts
- InvalidResponseError
- ContractExecutionError
- TransactionRevertWithCustomError
- TransactionRevertedWithoutReasonError
- TransactionRevertInstructionError
- TransactionPollingTimeoutError

> ```

Reviewer: I think it would be nice to provide a link to the API docs for the errors, e.g. https://docs.web3js.org/api/web3-errors/class/InvalidResponseError

For example, the error message could be `TransactionRevertInstructionError('Returned error: invalid argument 0: json: cannot unmarshal invalid hex string into Go struct field TransactionArgs.data of type hexutil.Bytes')`. The `handleRevert` is only supported for `sendTransaction` and not for `sendSignedTransaction` for now.

The default value of `handleRevert` is `false`.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.handleRevert = false;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `handleRevert` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.handleRevert = false;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```

> :::

Reviewer: These sections seem rather redundant and I'm worried it's creating unnecessary "noise". I'm not sure if these sections are even entirely necessary, given that it seems like this stuff is [already documented](https://docs.web3js.org/guides/web3_config/#global-level-config).

Author: It's a bit redundant for me. I followed the existing pattern of `defaultReturnFormat` to add each config option. I removed all global config examples to see if it's better.

```
:::info
The `defaultBlock` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.defaultBlock = "latest";

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

#### All available choices for defaultBlock:
```ts
web3.defaultBlock = 20167235; // A block number
web3.defaultBlock = "earliest"; // The genesis block
web3.defaultBlock = "latest"; // The latest block (current head of the blockchain)
web3.defaultBlock = "pending"; // The currently mined block (including pending transactions)
web3.defaultBlock = "finalized"; // (For POS networks) The finalized block is one which has been accepted as canonical by greater than 2/3 of validators
web3.defaultBlock = "safe"; // (For POS networks) The safe head block is one which under normal network conditions, is expected to be included in the canonical chain. Under normal network conditions the safe head and the actual tip of the chain will be equivalent (with safe head trailing only by a few seconds). Safe heads will be less likely to be reorged than the proof of work network`s latest blocks.
```

### transactionBlockTimeout

> The `transactionBlockTimeout` is used over socket-based connections. This option defines the amount of new blocks it should wait until the **first confirmation** happens, otherwise the PromiEvent rejects with a timeout error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `transactionBlockTimeout` is used over socket-based connections. This option defines the number of new blocks to wait for the **first confirmation**, otherwise the PromiEvent rejects with a timeout error.
```

The default value of `transactionBlockTimeout` is 50. 

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionBlockTimeout = 50;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `transactionBlockTimeout` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.transactionBlockTimeout = 50;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### transactionConfirmationBlocks

> This defines the number of blocks it requires until a transaction is considered confirmed. Different chains have varying security considerations and requirements for confirmation block numbers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This defines the number of blocks required for a transaction to be considered confirmed. Different chains have varying security considerations and requirements for confirmation block numbers.
```

The default value of `transactionConfirmationBlocks` is 24.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionConfirmationBlocks = 24;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `transactionConfirmationBlocks` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.transactionConfirmationBlocks = 24;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### transactionPollingInterval

> The `transactionPollingInterval` is used over HTTP connections. This option defines the number of seconds between Web3 calls for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. Modifying this value can reduce the wait time for confirmations or decrease the number of network requests. Setting the `transactionPollingInterval` would also set `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` and `transactionConfirmationPollingInterval` to the same value. 

Reviewer: Make sure that these links work, but it would be nice to link to the relevant sections here.

```suggestion
The `transactionPollingInterval` is used over HTTP connections. This option defines the number of seconds between Web3 calls for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. Modifying this value can reduce the wait time for confirmations or decrease the number of network requests. Setting the `transactionPollingInterval` would also set [`transactionReceiptPollingInterval`](#transactionReceiptPollingInterval) and [`transactionConfirmationPollingInterval`](#transactionConfirmationPollingInterval) to the same value. 
```

The default value of `transactionPollingInterval` is 1000 ms.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionPollingInterval = 1000; // 1000 ms = 1 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
/* ↳
  ...
  transactionPollingInterval: 1000,
  transactionPollingTimeout: 750000,
  transactionReceiptPollingInterval: 1000,
  transactionSendTimeout: 750000,
  transactionConfirmationPollingInterval: 1000,
  ...
*/
```
:::info
The `transactionPollingInterval` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.transactionPollingInterval = 1000; // 1000 ms = 1 s

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
/* ↳
  ...
  transactionPollingInterval: 1000,
  transactionPollingTimeout: 750000,
  transactionReceiptPollingInterval: 1000,
  transactionSendTimeout: 750000,
  transactionConfirmationPollingInterval: 1000,
  ...
*/
```
:::

### transactionPollingTimeout

> The `transactionPollingTimeout` is used over HTTP connections. This option defines the number of seconds Web3 will wait for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. It can be set based on the average transaction confirmation time on the network. Note: If this method times out, the transaction may still be pending. 

Reviewer: Does this seem more accurate?

```suggestion
The `transactionPollingTimeout` is used over HTTP connections. This option defines the number of seconds Web3 will wait for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. It can be set based on the average transaction confirmation time on the network. Note: If the `transactionPollingTimeout` is exceeded, the transaction may still be pending. 
```

Author: Definitely, it's better

The default value of `transactionPollingTimeout` is 750 seconds (12.5 minutes).
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionPollingTimeout = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `transactionPollingTimeout` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.transactionPollingTimeout = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### transactionReceiptPollingInterval

> The `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` is used over HTTP connections. This option defines the number of seconds between Web3 calls for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. Compared to `transactionPollingInterval`, it takes higher precedence. When this value is set, it will be read first.

Reviewer: Does this still accurately describe the way things work?

```suggestion
The `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` is used over HTTP connections. This option defines the number of seconds between Web3 calls for a receipt which confirms that a transaction was mined by the network. If this value _and_ [`transactionPollingInterval`](#transactionPollingInterval) are set, this value will take precedence.
```

The default value of `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` is `undefined`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionReceiptPollingInterval = undefined;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.transactionReceiptPollingInterval = undefined;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### transactionSendTimeout

> The `transactionSendTimeout` is used to wait for Ethereum Node to return the sent transaction result. Note: If the RPC call stuck at the Node and therefor timed-out, the transaction may still be pending or even mined by the Network. We recommend checking the pending transactions in such a case.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `transactionSendTimeout` option is used to specify how long to wait for the network to return the sent transaction result. Note: If the RPC call times out, the transaction may still be pending or even mined by the network. We recommend checking the pending transactions in such a case.
```

The default value of `transactionSendTimeout` is 750 seconds (12.5 minutes).
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.transactionSendTimeout = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `transactionSendTimeout` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.transactionSendTimeout  = 750000; // 750000 ms = 750 s

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### transactionConfirmationPollingInterval

> The `transactionConfirmationPollingInterval` is deprecated. Please use `transactionReceiptPollingInterval` or `transactionPollingInterval` instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `transactionConfirmationPollingInterval` option is deprecated. Please use [`transactionReceiptPollingInterval`](#transactionReceiptPollingInterval) or [`transactionPollingInterval`](#transactionPollingInterval) instead.
```

The default value of `blockHeaderTimeout` is 10 seconds.

```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.blockHeaderTimeout = 10; // 10 s

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `blockHeaderTimeout` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.blockHeaderTimeout = 10; // 10 s

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### maxListenersWarningThreshold
The `maxListenersWarningThreshold` is used to set the `maxListeners` property in `EventEmitter`.

The default value of `maxListenersWarningThreshold` is 100.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.maxListenersWarningThreshold = 100;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `maxListenersWarningThreshold` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.maxListenersWarningThreshold = 100;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### contractDataInputFill

> The `contractDataInputFill` will allow you to set the hash of the method signature and encoded parameters to the property either `data`, `input` or `both` within your contract. This will affect the contracts send, call and estimateGas methods.

Reviewer: It would be nice to link to the API docs for the methods as well.

```suggestion
The `contractDataInputFill` will allow you to set the hash of the method signature and encoded parameters to the property either `data`, `input` or `both` within your contract. This will affect the contracts `send`, `call` and `estimateGas` methods.
```

Author: I tried to link these as well, however, it seems there is no separate link for these methods. https://docs.web3js.org/api/web3-eth-contract/class/Contract

Author: I find the link [here](https://docs.web3js.org/libdocs/Contract#send) 😄

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `contractDataInputFill` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.contractDataInputFill = 'data';

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

#### All available choices for contractDataInputFill:
```ts
contractDataInputFill: 'data' | 'input' | 'both';
```

### defaultNetworkId
Each network has its own network ID. The defaultNetwork allows you to set the default network ID to increase code readability. If this parameter is not set, it will fetch the network ID from the connected RPC request.

The default value of `defaultNetworkId` is `undefined`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultNetworkId = undefined;

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `defaultNetworkId` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.defaultNetworkId = undefined;

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### defaultChain

> The `defaultChain` is used for building the `baseChain` property of the tx options in a transaction. If the `defaultCommon.basechain` is set, the`defaultChain` should be consistent with it.

Reviewer: It would be nice to link to the API docs for the `baseChain` property.

The default value of `defaultChain` is `mainnet`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultChain = 'mainnet';

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `defaultChain` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.defaultChain = 'mainnet';

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::
#### All available choices for defaultChain:
```ts
'goerli' | 'kovan' | 'mainnet' | 'rinkeby' | 'ropsten' | 'sepolia'

> ```

Reviewer: I think this would be easier to read if it were a list like `defaultHardFork`.

### defaultHardfork
The `defaultHardfork` is used for building the `defaultHardfork` property of the tx options in a transaction. If the `defaultCommon.defaultHardfork` is set, the`defaultHardfork` should be consistent with it.

The default value of `defaultHardfork` is `london`.
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultHardfork = 'london';

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `defaultHardfork` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3 } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.defaultHardfork = 'london';

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

> #### All available choices for contractDataInputFill:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### All available choices for defaultHardFork:
```

Author: good catch! thank you

```ts
'chainstart'
'frontier'
'homestead'
'dao'
'tangerineWhistle'
'spuriousDragon'
'byzantium'
'constantinople'
'petersburg'
'istanbul'
'muirGlacier'
'berlin'
'london'
'altair'
'arrowGlacier'
'grayGlacier'
'bellatrix'
'merge'
'capella'
'sharding'
```

### defaultCommon
The `defaultCommon` is used for building the `common` property of the tx options in a transaction. It should be consistent with the `defaultHardfork` and `defaultChain`. The `defaultCommon` property does contain the following Common object:
```
- customChain - Object: The custom chain properties
  - name - string: (optional) The name of the chain
  - networkId - number: Network ID of the custom chain
  - chainId - number: Chain ID of the custom chain
- baseChain - string: (optional) 'goerli', 'kovan', 'mainnet', 'rinkeby', 'ropsten' or 'sepolia'
- hardfork - string: (optional) chainstart, homestead, dao, tangerineWhistle, spuriousDragon, byzantium, constantinople, petersburg, istanbul, berlin, or london

> ```

Reviewer: It may be better to just link to [the API docs](https://docs.web3js.org/libdocs/Contract#defaultcommon) for the `defaultCommon` property.

The default value of `defaultCommon` is `undefined`.

```ts
import { Web3, Hardfork } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.defaultHardfork = 'berlin'
web3.defaultChain = 'goerli'

web3.defaultCommon = {
    baseChain: 'goerli',
    hardfork: 'berlin' as Hardfork,
    customChain: {
        networkId: 1,
        chainId: 1,
    },
};

console.log(web3.getContextObject().config);
```
:::info
The `defaultCommon` can be configured both globally and at the package level:
```ts
import { Web3, Hardfork } from 'web3';

const web3 = new Web3('http://127.0.0.1:7545');

web3.eth.defaultHardfork = 'berlin'
web3.eth.defaultChain = 'goerli'

web3.eth.defaultCommon = {
    baseChain: 'goerli',
    hardfork: 'berlin' as Hardfork,
    customChain: {
        networkId: 1,
        chainId: 1,
    },
};

console.log(web3.eth.getContextObject().config);
```
:::

### defaultTransactionType

> The `defaultTransactionType` is used set the transaction type. Transactions with type 0x0 are legacy transactions that use the transaction format existing before typed transactions were introduced in EIP-2718. Transactions with type 0x1 are transactions introduced in EIP-2930. Transactions with type 0x2 are transactions introduced in EIP-1559, included in Ethereum's London fork.

Reviewer: It would be nice to link to the EIPs here.
